急救方法介绍(英汉对照)

FIRST AID 急救

--From Senior English for China Students’ Book 2A Lesson 30
--节选自全日制普通高级中学教科书(试验修订本・必修)
英语 第二册(上) 第三十课
译文选自互动英语 延边教育出版社 做过少许修改

First aid is the science of giving medical care to a person before a doctor can be found. Anyone with the right knowledge can give first aid; you don’t have to be a doctor. First aid, if it is quickly and correctly given, can save a preson’s life.
急救是在找到医生之前给病人进行医疗救护的科学。任何有这方面知识的人都可以进行急救，你不一定要是医生。如果急救及时，方式得当，你就能挽救人的生命。

There are three important things to do if someone has had an accident.
如果有人出了事故，下面有三件重要事情需要做：

1 Check that the person can breathe. Open the mouth and make sure that there is no food at the back of the mouth.
1 检查这个人是否能呼吸。掰开嘴，看看口腔后部有没有食物堵住。

2 If the person is not breathing, you must try to start his/her breathing at once.If this is not done within five minutes, the person will die. The best thing is to use the mouth-to-mouth way. Lay the person on his/her back, close his/her nose with your fingers and breathe into his/her mouth. Repeat this as often as possible.
2 如果这个人停止呼吸，你就必须使他/她重新呼吸。如果五分钟内呼吸无法恢复，人就会死亡。最好的办法就是口对口人工呼吸。用手捏紧他/她的鼻子，向他/她口中吹气。根据需要尽可能多的重复这个动作。

3 If the person is bleeding badly, you must try to stop the bleeding. If a person loses one third of his/her blood, he/she may die. Press a handkerchief onto the bleeding point and hold it there. If it is possible, hold up the part of the body which is bleeding.
3 如果这个人大量出血，你必须给他止血。一个人如果流失1/3的血液，他/她可能就会死亡。把手帕压在出血点上，并且按住不放松。如果可能，把流血部位抬高。

Many common injuries happen every day in the home. All parents should know some first aid. Children can often get ill suddenly and they also have a lot of accidents.
每天家庭中都会发生一些常见的受伤事故。所有家长都应懂得一点急救知识。孩子们常常会突然生病，此外还会有很多事故发生在他们身上。

Here is some advice for dealing with common injuries:
以下是处理常见受伤情况的几条建议。

1 Animal bites. If you are bitten by an animal, wash the wound under cold running water. Then see a doctor as soon as possible.
1 动物咬伤。如果被动物咬伤，首先在冷的自来水下冲洗伤口。然后尽快去看医生。

2 Burns. Cool the area of skin at once. Wash the area of skin under the cold tap for several minutes. Put a piece of dry clean cloth over the area of the burn. See a doctor if a child has been burned or if more than 10% of the body has been burned.
2 烧伤。立即让烧伤的皮肤冷却。在冷水龙头下冲洗几分钟，之后在烧伤部位覆上清洁的干布。如果被烧伤的是孩子，或者烧伤面积超过身体的10%，那么就必须去看医生。

3 Cuts. For a simple cut, it is only necessary to wash the area of the cut, dry it and cover it with a piece of dry clean cloth. 
3 刀伤。对于简单的刀伤，只需将伤口冲洗后弄干，然后盖上清洁的干布即可。

This passage does not contain enough information for you to do first aid correctly! You have to study with a teacher. However, after a few hours of study you will manage to know enough to save other people’s lives. If evetryone in the country knew first aid, many lives would be saved.

这篇短文包含的知识并不足以让你正确的实施急救！你必须向老师学习。然而，经过几小时的学习后，你就能懂得挽救生命所必需的知识了。如果每个国民都懂得怎样急救，那么就可以挽救许多人的生命了。